BUILDING.md, before:

# Building

Use these instructions to run Omission from the repository. These should
work in nearly all cases.

If you run into trouble, contact support@mousepawmedia.com

## Windows 7 and later

1. [Download the latest Python 3 Release](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/)
and install it on your computer. Choose `Customize Installation`, use the
defaults on the first page, and additionally check `Add Python to Environment Path`
on the second page.

2. Open your command prompt by searching for the program `cmd`.

~~~
Future sections that look like this
should be typed in command prompt,
followed by the ENTER key.
(Don't type this one in.)
~~~

3. Upgrade `pip`, the Python package tool.

~~~
python -m pip install --upgrade pip wheel setuptools
~~~

4. Install `appdirs` using pip:

~~~
python -m pip install appdirs
~~~

5. Install Kivy's dependencies.

~~~
python -m pip install docutils pygments pypiwin32 kivy.deps.sdl2 kivy.deps.glew kivy.deps.gstreamer
~~~

6. Install Kivy itself.

~~~
python -m pip install kivy
~~~

7. Download the .zip for Omission and put it directly on the `C:` drive.
Right-click the file, click "Extract All", and follow the instructions.

8. In your command prompt, we'll start Omission.

~~~
cd C:\omission-master
python -m omission
~~~

**Every time you want to run Omission again, open a command prompt
and follow ONLY step 8 again!**

## macOS/Mac OS X 10.7.5 Lion or later

We'll be using Macports to set up our Python environment.

1. Install Xcode from your App Store. If it reports that your system is
too old, you can download the version for your OS from [developer.apple.com/download](https://developer.apple.com/download).

2. Download Macports for your operating system from [the MacPorts website](https://www.macports.org/install.php). Install it on your system.

3. Open the Terminal application, which is under Utilities.

~~~
Future sections that look like this
should be typed in the Terminal,
followed by the ENTER key.
(Don't type this one in.)
~~~

4. Install Python 3.6, and set it as your new default. We'll do the same
for `pip`, Python's package installer.

~~~
sudo port install python36
sudo port select --set python python36
sudo port install py36-pip
sudo port select --set pip pip36
~~~

5. Install the dependencies for Kivy.

~~~
sudo port install libsdl2 libsdl2_image libsdl2_ttf libsdl2_mixer
pip install -U Cython
pip install Pillow pygame
~~~

6. Install Kivy.

~~~
pip install kivy
~~~

7. Install `appdirs`.

~~~
pip install appdirs
~~~

8. Download the .zip for Omission. We'll leave it in Downloads for convenience.
In your Finder, double-click it to unzip it.

9. In your Terminal, we'll start Omission.

~~~
cd ~/Downloads/omission-master; python -m omission
~~~

**Every time you want to run Omission again, open a Terminal
and follow ONLY step 9 again!**

## Ubuntu/Linux Mint

1. Open the Terminal application.

~~~
Future sections that look like this
should be typed in the Terminal,
followed by the ENTER key.
(Don't type this one in.)
~~~

2. Make sure Python 3 is installed.

~~~
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python3
~~~

3. Install Kivy using their repository.

~~~
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:kivy-team/kivy
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python3-kivy
~~~

4. Install `appdirs`

~~~
sudo apt-get install python3-appdirs
~~~

5. Download the .zip for Omission and put it in your main user folder.
Right-click it and select `Extract Here`.

6. In your Terminal, we'll start Omission.

~~~
cd ~/omission-master; python3 -m omission
~~~

**Every time you want to run Omission again, open a Terminal
and follow ONLY step 7 again!**

## Debian Jessie

1. Open the Terminal application.

~~~
Future sections that look like this
should be typed in the Terminal,
followed by the ENTER key.
(Don't type this one in.)
~~~

2. Make sure Python 3 is installed.

~~~
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python3
~~~

3. Install Kivy using their repository.

~~~
sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list.bak
echo "deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/kivy-team/kivy/ubuntu trusty main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys A863D2D6
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python3-kivy
~~~

4. Install `appdirs`

~~~
sudo apt-get install python3-appdirs
~~~

For more information, see [Kivy's official installation instructions for Debian](https://kivy.org/docs/installation/installation-linux.html#debian-jessie-or-newer)

5. Download the .zip for Omission and put it in your main user folder.
Right-click it and select `Extract Here`.

6. In your Terminal, we'll start Omission.

~~~
cd ~/omission-master; python3 -m omission
~~~

**Every time you want to run Omission again, open a Terminal
and follow ONLY step 7 again!**

## Other Systems

If you're running Fedora, OpenSUSE, or a virtual environment on just about any
modern operating system, you can still run Omission. You will need to be running
Python 3, the ``appdirs`` Python package (installable via ``pip``), as well
as Kivy and its dependencies.

[Full installation instructions for Kivy can be found on their website](https://kivy.org/docs/installation/installation.html).

Finally, download and extract the .zip for Omission, navigate into it,
and execute it via `python3 -m omission` (or whatever similar as appropriate
for your environment.)

Commit message:

Added VS Redist download links

BUILDING.md, after:

# Building

Use these instructions to run Omission from the repository. These should
work in nearly all cases.

If you run into trouble, contact support@mousepawmedia.com

## Windows 7 and later

1. [Download the latest Python 3 Release](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/)
and install it on your computer. Choose `Customize Installation`, use the
defaults on the first page, and additionally check `Add Python to Environment Path`
on the second page.

2. Download and install the Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2015.
[64-bit download](http://download.microsoft.com/download/0/4/1/041224F6-A7DC-486B-BD66->BCAAF74B6919/vc_redist.x64.exe) or [32-bit download](http://download.microsoft.com/download/0/4/1/041224F6-A7DC-486B-BD66-BCAAF74B6919/vc_redist.x86.exe)

2. Open your command prompt by searching for the program `cmd`.

~~~
Future sections that look like this
should be typed in command prompt,
followed by the ENTER key.
(Don't type this one in.)
~~~

3. Upgrade `pip`, the Python package tool.

~~~
python -m pip install --upgrade pip wheel setuptools
~~~

4. Install `appdirs` using pip:

~~~
python -m pip install appdirs
~~~

5. Install Kivy's dependencies.

~~~
python -m pip install docutils pygments pypiwin32 kivy.deps.sdl2 kivy.deps.glew kivy.deps.gstreamer
~~~

6. Install Kivy itself.

~~~
python -m pip install kivy
~~~

7. Download the .zip for Omission and put it directly on the `C:` drive.
Right-click the file, click "Extract All", and follow the instructions.

8. In your command prompt, we'll start Omission.

~~~
cd C:\omission-master
python -m omission
~~~

**Every time you want to run Omission again, open a command prompt
and follow ONLY step 8 again!**

## macOS/Mac OS X 10.7.5 Lion or later

We'll be using Macports to set up our Python environment.

1. Install Xcode from your App Store. If it reports that your system is
too old, you can download the version for your OS from [developer.apple.com/download](https://developer.apple.com/download).

2. Download Macports for your operating system from [the MacPorts website](https://www.macports.org/install.php). Install it on your system.

3. Open the Terminal application, which is under Utilities.

~~~
Future sections that look like this
should be typed in the Terminal,
followed by the ENTER key.
(Don't type this one in.)
~~~

4. Install Python 3.6, and set it as your new default. We'll do the same
for `pip`, Python's package installer.

~~~
sudo port install python36
sudo port select --set python python36
sudo port install py36-pip
sudo port select --set pip pip36
~~~

5. Install the dependencies for Kivy.

~~~
sudo port install libsdl2 libsdl2_image libsdl2_ttf libsdl2_mixer
pip install -U Cython
pip install Pillow pygame
~~~

6. Install Kivy.

~~~
pip install kivy
~~~

7. Install `appdirs`.

~~~
pip install appdirs
~~~

8. Download the .zip for Omission. We'll leave it in Downloads for convenience.
In your Finder, double-click it to unzip it.

9. In your Terminal, we'll start Omission.

~~~
cd ~/Downloads/omission-master; python -m omission
~~~

**Every time you want to run Omission again, open a Terminal
and follow ONLY step 9 again!**

## Ubuntu/Linux Mint

1. Open the Terminal application.

~~~
Future sections that look like this
should be typed in the Terminal,
followed by the ENTER key.
(Don't type this one in.)
~~~

2. Make sure Python 3 is installed.

~~~
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python3
~~~

3. Install Kivy using their repository.

~~~
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:kivy-team/kivy
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python3-kivy
~~~

4. Install `appdirs`

~~~
sudo apt-get install python3-appdirs
~~~

5. Download the .zip for Omission and put it in your main user folder.
Right-click it and select `Extract Here`.

6. In your Terminal, we'll start Omission.

~~~
cd ~/omission-master; python3 -m omission
~~~

**Every time you want to run Omission again, open a Terminal
and follow ONLY step 7 again!**

## Debian Jessie

1. Open the Terminal application.

~~~
Future sections that look like this
should be typed in the Terminal,
followed by the ENTER key.
(Don't type this one in.)
~~~

2. Make sure Python 3 is installed.

~~~
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python3
~~~

3. Install Kivy using their repository.

~~~
sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list.bak
echo "deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/kivy-team/kivy/ubuntu trusty main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys A863D2D6
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python3-kivy
~~~

4. Install `appdirs`

~~~
sudo apt-get install python3-appdirs
~~~

For more information, see [Kivy's official installation instructions for Debian](https://kivy.org/docs/installation/installation-linux.html#debian-jessie-or-newer)

5. Download the .zip for Omission and put it in your main user folder.
Right-click it and select `Extract Here`.

6. In your Terminal, we'll start Omission.

~~~
cd ~/omission-master; python3 -m omission
~~~

**Every time you want to run Omission again, open a Terminal
and follow ONLY step 7 again!**

## Other Systems

If you're running Fedora, OpenSUSE, or a virtual environment on just about any
modern operating system, you can still run Omission. You will need to be running
Python 3, the ``appdirs`` Python package (installable via ``pip``), as well
as Kivy and its dependencies.

[Full installation instructions for Kivy can be found on their website](https://kivy.org/docs/installation/installation.html).

Finally, download and extract the .zip for Omission, navigate into it,
and execute it via `python3 -m omission` (or whatever similar as appropriate
for your environment.)
